ATEC Risk Control Brain - Payment Risk Detection
https://dc.cloud.alipay.com/index#/topic/intro?id=4

Contest Background

With the rapid growth of new financial services such as offline payment, insurance, and wealth management supported by mobile Internet, the Fintech industry is constantly upgrading through innovative breakthroughs. Meanwhile, the underground black market also keeps developing, which threatens the entire industry. Among those threats, the most serious and increasingly alarming one is the e-account security issue caused by information leakage. User information stolen by fraudsters including social security numbers, address information, credit card information , etc., can be used for login attempts and taking over account funds or bank cards, which directly leads to substantial economic losses for consumers and third-party payment companies. On June 1, 2017, Cyber Security Law of the People's Republic of China, the first law in cyber security, was officially enforced. The promulgation of this law provides a legal basis and protection for Internet users. At present, there are hundreds of millions of transactions everyday happening on the Ant Financial platform. In the past few years, this huge amount of transaction data was fed into Ant Financial risk control system and analyzed with AI techniques such as deep learning, online learning and reinforcement learning in order to ensure highly accurate and real-time risk assessment on each transaction. Taking safety as the bottom line, Ant Financial has developed an intelligent risk control system based on big data machine learning algorithms and biometric authentication. As a result, its capital loss ratio was maintained within 0.5 bps, the leading level in the industry.

 

However, various black market and underground black industry are also expanding exponentially. In 2017, incidents around user information leakage in many well-known worldwide enterprises were exposed to the public. It is estimated that there have been over 1.5 million practitioners in the black market in China, and the size of that market has reached 100 billion Yuan. The black market in cyber industry has posed a huge threat to country, business and citizens. The escalation of risk confrontation has raised great challenges to the timeliness and stability of the models trained under machine learning algorithms. The continuous decrease in Ant Financial’s transaction loss rate has also led to the continuous reduction in machine learning samples, which makes it harder to ensure the accuracy of the models. How to better use the massive transaction data and yet limited target samples to identify new fraud patterns to minimize transaction risks is a challenging and critical problem faced by AI and big data. Under this background, this contest is designed to focus on account security threats caused by information leakage, gather the most creative and effective security solutions and drive the development of core Risk Management technologies in the industry. At the same time, it intends to promote nationwide awareness of cybersecurity and cooperation to fight against cybercrimes.
